attitude of people.
One of the recollections I have, and one of the
funny meetings we had, former students, we used to
have our annual meeting up in the YMCA Chapel,
before the Student Center was built, and we
proposed as an objective of the development fund,
the golf course.
Well, man, if we had opposed adultery, we could
have turned up a hornet's nest. All these old
timers, the silliest thing I ever heard of. Expect
students to get out there and hit that silly ball
right in the ground out there. An old man got up and
said, our milk counts down there 25 cents an hour,
and I'd all propose to be a part of anything as
frivolous as a golf course. But the younger ones
prevailed. And, uh, but now that wouldn't, uh,
that wouldn't frighten anybody about a golf
course. They would take a thing about it. Spending
a lot of money on a golf course right now. Yeah.
Um, I believe also you were involved in, in
starting of the, uh, Opportunity Award
Scholarship Fund. Yeah, we started that. What,
uh, how did that happen to come about? Well, of
course, we'd operated a loan fund through the
years, but it had
become increasingly difficult to finance enough
through the loan fund, so we hit on the idea of
combining a job with a scholarship,
which was designed to give a student about
two-thirds of the year's cost, and then he had to
get the rest of it from home or summer employment.
And we just hit on the name, Opportunity of War. So
when a boy was selected to get one, he was also
guaranteed a job, mostly in the mess hall. It goes
through the years. Mess hall waiters, that job was
the tops of all the student jobs. I don't think, I
don't even have to miss all the waiters anymore.
Well, they're more busboys than they are waiters
now, I believe. Yeah, but in those days, that was
the top job on the campus, and it paid so much a month
and board. So it was, and they would set aside a
certain number of these jobs for opportunity
award winners. So it was a case in which the college
and the association were working together.
Working together, yeah. The college would
provide a job, and then you would provide some
supplementary money for them. How much did you
provide for each student in the beginning, do you
remember? $250. That was for a year or for a
semester? That was for a year. In that time, we
figured a student could go a year for about $1,000.
He couldn't own an automobile and live in an
apartment, but he could go to school. Well, I
imagine at that point there weren't very many of
them who had automobiles. Well, I don't think we'd
have ever given one an opportunity award if he had
an automobile. He wouldn't have needed one, would
he?
Uh-uh. Let's see.
What... We mentioned, talked a bit earlier about
this, the annual giving program evolving into the
development fund.
What kind of originally or initially was the
purpose of the development fund?
Well, basically to have some money to give to the
college for purposes that they needed but which
state funds were not available of course the
state's gotten very liberal these days as far as
they used to have riders on that appropriation you
couldn't spend any money for a golf course or you
couldn't spend any money for uh this that or the
other now apparently they can spend money for
anything well there's still a lot of things which
you can't take money from uh but uh so it actually it
was it was uh The association then sort of set up a
separate fund. Well, we had to take our expenses
out of that fund. Well, just like when we started
with the student union. I don't know that we had any
idea how much it cost when we started it. But it was
something that the college needed. Most schools
had them by that time. They were pretty big. Now
they're so accustomed, everybody's so
accustomed to it, they don't make anything. And we
were ambitious like everybody else. Now what I was
getting at is you had the annual giving program.
and you discontinued the membership dues. We
discontinued the dues, yeah. And you had the
annual giving program. So I was wondering, did you
then just take all the money you got in and put it
into the development fund? Yeah, yeah. That's all
the income we had. Oh, we had a few investments.
We had some endowment funds, not many, not much.
And advertising in the Texas Aggie, a few
miscellaneous sources. So I was misled. I thought
perhaps you had a special fundraising effort to
create the development fund. No, no, we just made
the change and started soliciting on a different
basis and it worked out all right. And then By 1947,
it apparently had devolved to it enough of a
program in which, well, I guess even before that,
because you succeeded Henderson Shuffler as the
executive director of the development fund.
Yeah, yeah. And also the executive director of
special gifts and bequests. Yeah. This was for the
college, or was it still for the Association of
Former Students? Well, for the college, yeah. So
then the college got money for the development
fund as well as the Association of Former
Students? Well, we got into, I guess, a
little difficulty on the name. The association
had called their money raising efforts the
development fund. And then when we set up the
college office, and we were instrumental in
setting that up, talking them into... put the man
in there and seek special gifts for the college.
They called that the development fund. It was
supposed to seek these special gifts and
bequests, things of that sort. And worked real
closely with the former student association.
Well, somewhere, I don't believe the former
students call theirs the development fund
anymore. I think they call that other office the
development program. That's Bob Walker's office
now. And former students call theirs annual
giving. But there was a confusion there as to
names.
So then the development fund of which you were
executive director was separated from the former
students by the time you were involved in it. And
then that was to, was that for, say, if a professor
had a research project you would assist him in
obtaining funding, or did you assist only college
programs in obtaining funding? Well, we hadn't
gotten into assisting the individual research
program. That was done by the dean and other
people. Mostly, the effort was to get bequests
and, oh, industrial grants and things of that
sort. This would be an industrial grant for a
department or for a college rather than an
individual researcher. The college has a lot of
scholarship funds. I say a lot, I don't know what it
would total of, but it is a hell of a lot of
individual scholarships. And we'd always made a
point of maintaining the integrity of each one of
those funds, so the administration of them became
quite a chore. And that was under this office.
Now I believe Bob Logan handles that. I'm not sure
whether they're divided or not. Maybe not. I don't
know. I kind of believe Logan has the scholarship.
Bob Logan is director of student financial aid.
And all of that used to be under the development
office.
It ground me down. Well, yeah. I believe what? You
probably had a committee that helped you decide
who had what scholarship. We had a scholarship
committee. And we had a general supervisory
committee. Development Board, we called it. Um,
what kind of, what relationship was there, say,
between the, the Development Fund or Development
Board and the Research Foundation, which started
in the mid-40s? Well, none. None amounted thing. I
mean, there was no, there was no, uh, difference
between them. I mean, there was no opposition. Did
you sometimes find yourself competing against
each other for the same money? I don't think so,
really. We weren't competing that strongly. You
mean the development fund? Yeah. And
later on, I know some of the college people, the
university people, felt like that we, maybe
they've solved it now, that we ought to have a
central office so that there would be no
competition. I never, I never think it's
worthwhile, because you gotta set up a central
office, then you gotta have another strata of
executives, one thing or another, and these
people you're seeking money for, from,
well, take one of the instances, you say, well,
suppose Fred Benson goes to the Elmwood Company
and asks for some money, and the next day, Donald
Lindsay goes in there and asks them, I don't know
what they're going to think. And my position was,
we don't care what they think. They probably
think, boy, they're after it. And I said, they can
say no just as easy as anybody in the world, and they
don't bother them a damn bit. And I don't think it
ought to embarrass us. But that's just one of those
things that's bound to continue to occur. Well,
there is a central office of university research
now in the vice president for academic affairs
office. Yeah, that's probably. And that's a
replacement for what was Dr. Suttles' vice
president for research. But I don't fully
understand whether, say, something that's
funneled through the research foundation,
whether that goes through the university
research office or not. I don't know either. But
anyway, there is more of a central office now than
there was in the past, anyway. But I'm not so sure
how much cooperation there is, say, between Dr.
Berg, whose Office of University Research, and
Bob Walker's Development Fund. Well, I don't know
either. I don't know. Bob, I would guess, was
devoting most of his time to what I call special
gifts, big quests, and somebody wants to give
$50,000 to start a memorial fund or something of
that sort, whereas this other officer would be
more interested in research.
I've asked you about a number of specific things
that were accomplished while you were with the
Association of Farmer Students. Are there some
other things that were accomplished that you'd
like to talk about? You talked a little bit about
mentioning the golf course, and that was one I had
not asked you about. You were there for quite a long
while, and I know a lot of things happened.
I don't know.
Of course, they've had through the years various
objectives of the development fund. I don't
recall all of them. I think those were the
groundbreaking ones right there that we
mentioned.
I believe, of course, one of the other things which
developed while you were either, well, this would
have been while you were with the development
fund, and that was the construction of the All
Faiths Chapel. You were involved, I guess, in the
raising of funds for that.
Was All Faiths a replacement for Guyon Hall as a
place of worship? I don't recall that it was,
particularly. that was,
it just sounded like a pretty good objective.
Well, I guess even by that time, there was no, there
was, well, even at that time, I guess there was
really no worship service in Guyon Hall anymore on
Sunday morning. I don't think so. With all of the
local churches around. I think Guyon Hall had
outlived its usefulness really, I guess. Picture
shows. It was more of a social gathering place, a
place of entertainment than a place of worship. Of
course commencement was held there.
I believe at one point you served a year's term as
president of the American Alumni Council. That
was a position of, I suppose, a considerable
amount of responsibility, but a considerable
amount of honor too, was it not? Well, mostly
honor. Mostly honor. Mostly honor. The council
had and has an office in Washington, and the
president has to, but they have district
meetings. He makes each one of those district
meetings. I had a couple of board meetings here,
but it's mostly an honor, really, I guess. So the
council then has, what, an executive director of
its own that does most of the office? Yeah, it's a
day-to-day business. What sort of services does
the executive office of the Alumni Council
provide to individual alumni organizations? Oh,
they have publications, and they put on these
district meetings, and they put on an annual
conference,
and they maintain a library on alumni work, and
that's Mostly it. I presume you say the executive
director's office sort of puts on the annual
meeting at which people from the various alumni
organizations attend. They then, I presume, are
responsible for the executive director's office
would be responsible for the program at which you
get some of the ideas. You come back to them. That's
right, yeah. Of course, they always name some.
alumni secretary as director of the annual
conference, but the office does the work. The
office does the work. Would it be somebody in the
vicinity? Yeah, somebody in the vicinity.
There's a host. Somebody acts as a host of the
speaker. Yeah, yeah. Did that group ever meet
here? No, no, never have met in Texas. The only time
I met
was Gulfport one year, as close as I recall.
Well, maybe that'll be something for us to strive
for for the centennial year. Well, they meet in the
summer, and I wouldn't want anybody to come to
Texas this summer. Most people don't want to come
to East Texas in the summertime. That's right.
To have these national conferences of the
American Alumni Council, I'd go to the board and
ask for or expenses to make the trip, travel
expenses. And I've made several of them. And I
remember one year, I had a board meeting. I said, I
want to go to this meeting. I don't remember where
it was. And one crusty old gentleman spoke up. He
said, well, I said, I vote to provide the expenses
with one provision. He said, don't come back with
any more of those goddamn big ideas.
So
he was going to defeat your purpose in going before
you ever left.
And that's where a lot of them came from.
Through the years, Texas A&M and Ohio State have
had a relationship. I may go back to old Dean
Francis, I don't know, D.W. Williams, just any
number of Ohio State people here. And I became
acquainted with their alumni program and their
alumni secretaries. I had a couple of them. And
they were sharp. They were way ahead of anybody
else in the public school field. So I got a lot of
ideas from them. and other people, of course.
There's a nice thing about alumni work. You don't
mind copying anybody because you're working in an
entirely different clientele. You're not going
to compete with anybody. I know one thing I wanted
to ask you. You mentioned that you picked up this
idea of discontinuing dues and going to an annual
giving program.
How much of an increase did you have in income? We
had a substantial increase. I've forgotten how
much, but I think our budget on the dues used to be
about $25,000 a year or something like that. I
think we doubled that the first year we had the
annual giving. So there were any number of people
who were happy to pay, who would pay $5 but could
well afford more, but there really was not an
opportunity. Nobody asked them. So if you give
them the opportunity to open their purse and give
you more, then they did. I recall one, I think it was
the first solicitation we sent out, And we got a
check back from a man that I knew personally. He was
a sort of a hell raiser, a drinker, one thing or
another. It was $500. And the check was sort of
messed up at one thing or another. It was signed.
And I just couldn't believe what I was looking at.
So I called him up, and I said, Tommy, we got a check
here for $500. I just want to check with you to be
sure it's right. He said, you don't think I got
$500? I said, yeah. I thought, you're pretty well
fixed, man. I said, yeah, I know you got $500.
Knowing you, I didn't know when and where you wrote
this check. He said, I wrote it in my office. I said,
my God, you're cashing.
Well, that puts you off to a good start. Oh, yeah.